Add Backup / Restore docs (#2072)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/con_define-backup-server-for-operator.adoc

> [id="define-backup-server-for-operator"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-to-use-a-backup-server"]
```

> = Configuring {prod-short} to use backup server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring {prod-short} to use a backup server
```

> To configure a backup server for {prod-short} create `CheBackupServerConfiguration` object in the ${prod-short} namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a backup server for {prod-short} create `CheBackupServerConfiguration` Custom Resource object in the {prod-namespace} namespace.
```

> To configure a backup server for {prod-short} create `CheBackupServerConfiguration` Custom Resource object in the {prod-namespace} namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a backup server for {prod-short}, create the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` Custom Resource object in the {prod-namespace} namespace.
```

> The object's `spec` divided on sections, each corresponds to own xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[backup server type]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object's `spec` is divided to sections, and each corresponds to its own xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[backup server type]:
```

 * xref:configure-rest-server-cr[REST]
 * xref:configure-awss3-server-cr[AWS S3 or API compatible]
 * xref:configure-sftp-server-cr[SFTP]

The object must have only one section configured.

>  +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Referenced secrets must exist and have required fields.

[NOTE]
====
It is possible to configure as many backup servers as needed.
Each in a separate Custom Resource.
====

> [id="configure-rest-server-cr"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="configuring-rest-server-cr"]
```

== Configuring REST server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  rest:
    protocol: http                                                 <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    credentialsSecretRef: rest-server-auth-secret                  <6>
----
<1> Protocol to use. Optional, defaults to `https`. Only `http` and `https` allowed.
<2> Backup server hostname.
<3> Port on which backup server running. Optional, defaults to `8000`.

> <4> Path on backup server where backup snapshots stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Path on backup server where backup snapshots are stored.
```

> <5> Secret name with repository password under `repo-password` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Secret name with the repository password in `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, its name is arbitrary. The password used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshot data.
```

> If the secret contains only one field, its name could be arbitrary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The password used to encrypt / decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<6> Secret name with REST server user credentials under `username` and `password` fields. Optional.

> [id="configure-awss3-server-cr"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="configuring-aws-s3-or-api-compatible-server-cr"]
```

== Configuring AWS S3 or API compatible server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  awss3:
    protocol: https                                                <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    awsAccessKeySecretRef: aws-user-credentials-secret             <6>
----
<1> Protocol to use. Optional, defaults to `https`.
<2> S3 hostname. Optional, defaults to `s3.amazonaws.com`.

> <3> Port on which backup server running. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Port on which the backup server is running. Optional.
```

> <4> Bucket name where backup snapshots stored. The bucket must be pre-created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Bucket name where backup snapshots are stored. The bucket must be pre-created.
```

> <5> Secret name with repository password under `repo-password` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Secret name with the repository password in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, its name is arbitrary. The password used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshot data.
```

> If the secret contains only one field, its name could be arbitrary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The password used to encrypt / decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<6> Secret name with user credentials under `awsAccessKeyId` and `awsSecretAccessKey` fields.

> [id="configure-sftp-server-cr"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="configuring-sftp-server-cr"]
```

== Configuring SFTP server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  awss3:
    username: user                                                 <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    sshKeySecretRef: ssh-key-secret                                <6>
----
<1> User name on remote server to login with through SSH.
<2> Remote server hostname.

> <3> Port on which SFTP server running. Optional, defaults to `22`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Port on which the SFTP server is running. Optional, defaults to `22`.
```

> <4> Absolute or relative path on the server where backup snapshots stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Absolute or relative path on the server where the backup snapshots stored.
```

> <5> Secret name with repository password under `repo-password` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Secret name with the repository password in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, its name is arbitrary. The password used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshot data.
```

> If the secret contains only one field, its name could be arbitrary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The password used to encrypt / decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> <6> Secret name with private SSh key under `ssh-privatekey` field for passwordless login on the SFTP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> Secret name with a private SSH key in `ssh-privatekey` field for passwordless login to the SFTP server.
```

[id="define-backup-server-for-operator"]
= Configuring {prod-short} to use backup server

To configure a backup server for {prod-short}, a user needs to create the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` Custom Resource object in the {prod-namespace} namespace. The object's `spec` property is divided in several sections where each corresponds to a specific xref:setup-backup-server.adoc[backup server type]:

>  * xref:configure-rest-server-cr[REST]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * xref:configuring-rest-server-cr[REST]
```

>  * xref:configure-awss3-server-cr[AWS S3 or API compatible]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * xref:configuring-aws-s3-or-api-compatible-server-cr[AWS S3 or API compatible]
```

>  * xref:configure-sftp-server-cr[SFTP]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * xref:configuring-sftp-server-cr[SFTP]
```

+
[NOTE]
====
* The Custom Resource object, stored in the `{prod-namespace}` namespace, must have only one section configured in the `spec` property.

* It is possible to configure as many backup servers as needed, but each in a separate `Custom Resource`.

* Referenced secrets for each server type must exist and have required fields specified. See the description of each secret in the corresponding server-type chapters.
====

[id="configure-rest-server-cr"]
== Configuring REST server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  rest:
    protocol: http                                                 <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    credentialsSecretRef: rest-server-auth-secret                  <6>
----

> <1> Optional property that specifies the protocol which will be used. The default value is `https` with `http` as the second allowed option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Optional property that specifies the protocol to be used. The default value is `https` with `http` as the second allowed option.
```

<2> Backup server hostname.
<3> Optional property that specifies the port on which the backup server is running. The default value is `8000`.
<4> Path on the backup server where the backup snapshots are stored.

> <5> Secret name containing a repository password, stored under the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, its name could be arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Secret name containing a repository password, stored in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, its name is arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.
```

<6> Optional property that specifies the name of the secret with the REST server user credentials, stored in the `username` and `password` fields.

[id="configure-awss3-server-cr"]
== Configuring AWS S3 or API compatible server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  awss3:
    protocol: https                                                <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    awsAccessKeySecretRef: aws-user-credentials-secret             <6>
----

> <1> Optional property that specifies the protocol which will be used. The default value is `https` with `http` as the second allowed option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Optional property that specifies the protocol to be used. The default value is `https` with `http` as the second allowed option.
```

<2> Optional property that specifies the S3 hostname. The default value is `s3.amazonaws.com`.
<3> Optional property that specifies the port on which the backup server is running.
<4> The name of the bucket resource where the backup snapshots are stored. The bucket resource must be manually pre-created.

> <5> The name of the secret containing a repository password, stored under the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, this name can be arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> The name of the secret containing a repository password, stored in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, this name is arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.
```

> <6> The name of the secret containing user credentials stored in `awsAccessKeyId` and `awsSecretAccessKey` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> The name of the secret containing user credentials stored in the `awsAccessKeyId` and `awsSecretAccessKey` fields.
```

[id="configure-sftp-server-cr"]
== Configuring SFTP server

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
spec:
  awss3:
    username: user                                                 <1>
    hostname: my-domain.net                                        <2>
    port: 1234                                                     <3>
    repositoryPath: {prod-short}-backups                           <4>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <5>
    sshKeySecretRef: ssh-key-secret                                <6>
----

<1> User name on the remote server to login with using the SSH protocol.
<2> Remote server hostname.
<3> Optional property that specifies the port on which an SFTP server is running. The default value is `22`.
<4> Absolute or relative path on the server where backup snapshots are stored.

> <5> The name of the secret containing a repository password, stored in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, this name can be arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> The name of the secret containing a repository password, stored in the `repo-password` field. If the secret contains only one field, this name is arbitrary. The password is used to encrypt and decrypt backup snapshots data.
```
